# Pedestrian-Detection-System-in-python
It is a software which is used to detect pedestrians in a video sample. 
The topic “Pedestrian detection Using Open CV” is an application project which keeps a track on simple detection, count on number of pedestrians and total count of pedestrians walking on roads. Pedestrian detection that is proposed has been developed using tensorflow object detection API and Open CV library tools. Tensor flow API is widely used in computer vision tasks like image processing, object detection and related computer vision tasks like face detection, face recognition and video object video co-segmentation. In this project we extensively use tensor flow’s video object co-segmentation technique.

Pedestrian detection and frames has been developed using Open CV software. Open CV(Open Source Computer Vision Library) is an open source computer vision and machine learning library. It was built to provide a common infrastructure of computer vision applications and to accelerate the use of machine perception in the commercial products. Here Pedestrian detection and tracking has been developed using Open CV via Image Pixel Manipulation and Calculation. The entire project works on the above two mentioned application software.

Here we provide a sample video of a road or a place with moving pedestrians, the program is developed which can count (track), detect, and have the total count of pedestrians moving forward and backward. This project can be extensively used in super markets, metro stations, movie theatre and many more places.

Pedestrian detection is an essential and significant task in any intelligent video surveillance system, as it provides the fundamental information for semantic understanding of the video footages. It has an obvious extension to automotive applications due to the potential for improving safety systems.
The ability to reliably detect pedestrians in real-world images is interesting for a variety of applications, such as video surveillance or automatic driver-assistance systems in vehicles. At the same time, pedestrians are one of the most challenging categories for object detection. A large variability in their local and global appearance is caused by various types and styles of clothing, so that only few local regions are really characteristic for the entire category. In addition, the global shape undergoes a large range of transformations due to the variety of possible articulations and a multitude of occluding accessories such as backpacks, briefcases, and hand- or shopping bags, which may perturb a pedestrian’s silhouette. Finally, in many applications several persons may be present in the same image region, partially occluding each other and adding to the difficult.
•	In this software a sample video of moving pedestrians is taken as input and allows the program to count number of people in the video, detect the people in video and total number of people moving in and out. 
•	The pedestrians are detected with use of Tensor Flow Object Counting API. 
•	Pedestrian detection application is developed by using open CV.
